We will analyze what are the advantages,
because there are very clear advantages,
of choosing a segmentation
or niche strategy with respect
to competitors who opt for
the entire market.
Well, I think there is one
main one, and from which almost
all the others derive, and that you,
by focusing, by focusing, have
a greater knowledge of that
niche.
You know much more about customers,
their needs, what moves them, their
challenges, their problems,
etc., and from this, because many
advantages are generated.
The example of Decathlon.
Decathlon offers all the
products, but the bike store knows
the cyclist perfectly what
he likes, etc., what he demands.
It is clear that the customer’s
knowledge is much greater.
This allows you to
have more adapted products.
You can adapt your proposal to that
niche, and you are much more flexible.
I’m putting the example of a software
manufacturer that has focused,
a recent company that is growing
a lot, that has focused
on software for restaurants,
mainly for shopping.
It is clear that it has opted
for a segmentation strategy against
the large software manufacturers
that play mainly differentiation
and are present on all
verticals.
It is clear that for G-stock
to have developed a product that
satisfies the needs of restaurants
much more effectively is
very easy because it knows
the restaurants very well.
Not only can you create a better
product, but it’s also that you
can, it’s easier to market it.
It’s easier to get to when your
customer segment is very specific,
it’s much more efficient to get
to that customer segment in
marketing issues.
You can better choose the channels,
know where they are, address
them much more specifically,
etc.
I’ll give you an example of a
company, from a friend of mine,
a real estate advisor, traditionally
in a hostel.
He decided to move from a generalist
strategy, he was aiming with
all products to all segments
to focus on a niche and has
gone much better.
For many reasons, because it offers
more value, because it knows its market
very well, its target audience
and among others also because
marketing, capture is much
more effective.
He has to catch hostels now.
From that, segmentation, the
channels you can use, etc.,
is much simpler than if you
had to, like any real estate
advisor or real estate
agency that has to use
real estate portals,
indifferent and so on.
I think it is easy to understand.
Another advantage is that it is very
common that in this type of
strategy the fidelization of customers
is much greater.
I’ll put you a classic case of
niche strategy, which is a sastre.
A sastre competes with clothing
manufacturers, with the big
brands, whether they play to differentiation
or cost or whatever, but the
sastre is clear that it competes
in a niche and customer loyalty
is maximum.
Customers are all their lives in the
same sink that has your measurements.
You already understand the difference.
Another of the main advantages
is that usually, especially
when you compete in differentiation
within a niche, the customer
price sensitivity is much lower
and ultimately allows you
to have higher prices and
that the margins are much
larger.
The margins of a company like Ferrari
are much higher than of a company
like Mercedes.
The margins are much higher, in
principle, that applies a specialized
bike store than Decathlon.
Because you choose Decathlon for the
price, for the cheap.
The bike shop is not
cheap.
You choose her because she is the only
one who is able to, if you are
a big fan of bicycling, she is the only
one who is able to understand your needs.
You know the professionals,
etc.
They give you much more value.
Your price sensitivity
is much lower.
In addition, another advantage is that
when you focus on a niche, it’
s much easier to reach a leadership
position within that
niche.
Obviously it is much easier.
I’ll give you an example of a craft
beer centered, in addition,
in a geographical area within
Spain that would acquire a strong
leadership position within
that market, from that small
niche.
This ultimately creates barriers
to entry.
The same entry barriers that a competitor
that has leadership generates,
a monopoly at a level, because
that, throughout the market,
niche competitors end up getting
it within their niches.
This is a huge advantage in your
business model.